how to take notes
- handwritten
- cornell notes
- printed slides

benefits
- prereading helps pinpoint what you don't understand (class time is perfect opportunity to ask questions)
- often Dr. Gupta may add additional insight than what is presented on the slides/textbook, 
so you can just focus on adding that supplementary info to your notes rather than cramming to jot down everything




how to Study

Biology can seem really overwhelming, but it's crucial that you don't fall into the trap of rote-memorization. Here are several dos and don'ts.

DO: Quiz yourself.

study with a buddy, find worksheets (provided here)

DO: Re-read your notes.

and slids (also provided here)

DO: Make mind maps

as you're writing, explain the connections between concepts (e.g., )

DON'T: rely on flash cards

may work, but inefficient
you're studying for freshman biology, not the MCAT

DON'T: Wait until the last minute to fill gaps of knowledge

won't be a problem if you have good notetaking strats, 
if that's the case then studying day before might be enough

Purpose

Magnet BioMentor was created as a study tool for Dr. Gupta's Freshman-year Biology course. 
Magnet freshmen may find Biology daunting at first but incredibly rewarding; 
in fact, many motivated freshmen have gotten 5's on the AP Biology test based on the freshman-year content alone.
In other words, Dr. Gupta's class will ultimately prepare Magnet students for college rigor and styles of teaching.
It is however necessary for freshmen to learn how to adapt to this elevated course rigor, which Magnet BioMentor aims to facilitate.

Features

> Accessibility
Magnet BioMentor follows the same chapters/curriculum as taught in Dr. Gupta's class. Within each chapter, you will find
resources ranging from lecture slides to videos and worksheet PDFs. These resources originate from Freshman/AP Biology Google Classroom 
posts and videos I personally found beneficial. This way, students do not need to search through Classroom posts themselves and can 
readily use helpful study materials.

> Self-sufficiency
Each chapter also comes with quiz questions curated from Freshman/AP Biology curriculum. These hand-picked questions 
place emphasis on key concepts and critical thinking. 
The Advice page also provides insight into effective learning/study techniques.

About the Developer
I'm Christopher Cao, Magnet class of 2025, and have taken Freshman Biology, AP Biology, and Fundamentals of Biomedical Engineering 
with Dr. Gupta. You may learn more about me on my website or connect with me on LinkedIn. This web app was created with 
React and Firebase using Typescript, Tailwind, and Vite (source on GitHub). I hope that you find this application helpful!
